here's a tweet from Bernie Sanders from
just a few months ago quote factory
farms are responsible for 1.4 trillion
pounds of animal waste in America they
are a threat to the water we drink in
the air we breathe and is unbelievable
to me that Republicans in Congress have
been working overtime to exempt factory
farms from environmental laws and yet
here we are just a few months later and
Bernie Sanders is being a shill for the
meat and dairy industry a shill for
cattle herders a shill for grass-fed
quote unquote
free-range great beef steak without
mysteriously without taking the two
minutes to do a google search to figure
out which one actually has a worse
impact on the environment so we're
really into grazing as a means of
approaches water quality climate change
water cooling if I were asked to make a
video promoting a charity a nonprofit
organization collecting donations in
pursuit of these objectives a charity
claiming that they were doing something
to improve water quality improve climate
change and bring about quote unquote
global cooling I would be incredibly
skeptical before I made a YouTube video
endorsing that Jerry but well I've got a
really look into what you do here
if the for-profit beef industry if
people who are raising and slaughtering
cattle at a profit asked hitmen video
endorsing those same ecological claims
the level of skepticism would be pretty
high at this end but not for Bernie
Sanders essentially what we're trying to
do is take carbon out of the atmosphere
and put it back into the ground to grow
more feed
to produce a high-end product so the
claim made there the claim presented by
Bernie Sanders is that grass-fed beef
pasture-raised beef isn't just carbon
neutral no butter no Bernie Sanders is
advancing the claim that it's
ecologically positive that it's gonna
have a net positive it's gonna have a
net benefit on the world's ecology for
you yes you to buy and eat for moths
free-range grass-fed beef steak wow I
can imagine all kinds of completely
corrupt probe industry organizations
that put this message out but here's
left-wing ecologist bernie sanders
delivering you the same message and boy
wow i sure would love to believe that
bernie sanders sincerely believes this
these sincerely had a momentary lapse in
judgment and didn't decide to check a
single United Nations report a single
scientific source to verify whether or
not these claims are factual whether or
not this would even just be shall we say
marketing height or false advertising
whether or not this might actually be
massively ecologically destructive and
being misrepresented to the public as a
charity case when it's not it's just
more mass media manipulation from a
grubby for-profit private industry we as
a world have got to come together to
develop bold solutions to the crisis of
climate change my ex-wife would remember
this I used to say all the time that
somebody was making a sub Wikipedia
error they were making an error at such
a low level that if you used googled it
and checked Wikipedia you know it was
false you know there was something wrong
with it Bernie Sanders has been a shill
for the cattle industry for the beef
industry for animal husbandry for many
years now he just put out a new YouTube
video it is not his first time being a
show for actively lying
and promoting this industry it is an
especially brazen especially shameful
example of Bernie Sanders dishonesty
because he tries to take this industry
and wrap it in the green flag of the
ecological movement he tells lies in
this video trying to promote the the
raising and selling of grass-fed beef as
if it were an ecological charity and not
a for-profit business that is
ecologically irresponsible and
devastating the world's atmosphere
devastating the world's ecology also
devastating our water resources blah
blah blah unites the list
um this is significant in itself because
ecology matters veganism matters there
other things to the matter it's also
significant in showing that Bernie
Sanders has bad judgment jump cut Gorge
mom vo writing for the Guardian the
answer we are told by celebrity chefs
and food writers is to keep livestock
outdoors to eat free-range beef or lamb
not battery raised pork but all this
does is to swap one disaster mass
cruelty for another mass destruction
almost all forms of animal farming
caused environmental damage but none
more so than keeping them outdoors pause
pause pause what we're saying here is
that so-called free-range grass-fed
grazing beef is worse for the
environment worse for ecology than
factory farmed animals the reason is
inefficiency grazing is not just
slightly inefficient it is stupendously
wasteful roughly twice as much of the
world's surface is used for grazing as
for growing crops yet animals fed
entirely on pasture produce just one
gram out of the 81 grams of protein
consumed per person per day a paper in
science of the total environment reports
that livestock production is the single
largest driver of habitat loss grazing
livestock are a fully automated system
for ecological destruction you need only
release them onto the land and they do
the rest
browsing out tree seedlings simplifying
complex ecosystems their keepers augment
this assault by slaughtering large
predators in the United Kingdom for
example sheep supply in terms of
calories around 1% of our diet yet they
occupy around 4 million hectares of land
the United Kingdom doesn't have that
many million hectares to play with it's
not that big country compared to Canada
the United States Australia or what have
you this is more or less equivalent to
all the land under crops in this country
and more than twice the area of the
built environment the rich mosaic of
rainforest and other habitats that once
covered our hills has been erased the
wildlife reduced to a handful of Hardy
species this damage has caused out of
all proportion to the meat produced the
point is even if you don't have an
ethical bone in your body if you don't
care what the suffering and deaths of
these animals you should be able to look
at the facts do the math and recognize
that grazing livestock grazing cattle
grazing sheep are simply put a disaster
so we're really into grazing as a means
of approaches water quality climate
change water cooling we might ask
ourselves is Bernie Sanders
intentionally lying or is he just
unbelievably optimistic about the
difference in ecological damage between
beef that's raised eating soybeans corn
other processed meal and beef that's
produced by cows eating grass how is it
possible that he is honestly not lying
non attention doesn't mean that he is
honestly convinced that this difference
in the cows diet and giving the cow a
little bit of space to wander around
it's just a pending you know field but
whatever gave him the cow a little bit
of space to walk outdoors and feeding it
a slightly different eye that this would
be the difference between beef
production being an ecological disaster
and an ecological benefit
when I say I'm a grass farmer why that's
important to grazing is that my goal is
to grow the biggest most diverse grass
layer all the way up through shrubs and
trees not only are you slowing rainfall
and providing wildlife habitat we are
also sequestering carbon above and below
ground there's sort of a bad stereotype
still floating around in American
politics from the collective memory of
politicians lying on behalf of the
cigarette industry or lying on behalf of
the pharmaceutical industry I mean you
might have some cartoon notion of what
that might be in your mind but guess
what
Bernie Sanders lying on behalf of the
free-range beef industry is much worse
there's there's a sincere debate that
could be had about the ecological impact
of farming tobacco tobacco it's a plant
there's a sincere debate that could be
had about you know carbon sequestration
and ecological responsibility for
tobacco farmers there's a sincere debate
to be had about you know the future of
the American healthcare system all these
things there is absolutely no sincere
debate to be had about the lies lies
that Bernie Sanders is here telling and
not for the first time to support the
free-range beef industry Bernie Sanders
who hypocritically vilifies Republicans
for supporting not a no agriculture in
general or beef farmers in general now
turns around and pretends that the fig
leaf of morality provided by feeding
cows grass instead of soybeans is a
pretext to whitewash or should I say
green wash one of the most destructive
the most ecologically irresponsible
industries in the history of the world
we as a world have got to come together
tan tan-tan
[Music]